AI Consultant
About the job
Amsterdam, Rotterdam, hybrid

DEPT® is a Growth Invention company built to help the world’s most ambitious brands grow faster. Operating at the intersection of technology and marketing, our 4,000+ specialists deliver growth invention services across Brand & Media, Experience, Commerce, CRM, and Technology & Data. We’re 50|50 tech and marketing, partner-led, and first to move. Clients include Google, Lufthansa, Meta, eBay, and OpenAI. We have been certified B Corp and Climate Neutral since 2021.

DEPT®/AI

DEPT®/AI has a single mission: to make the best work in the industry using AI to enhance everything we do. This role sits within our Data & AI practice, which has deep expertise in leveraging AI. The team includes data strategists, consultants, data scientists and analysts that work alongside DEPT® teams around the world across different services – from commerce, to full-funnel media, content engineering to internal operations. You will be solving some of the hardest and most challenging problems facing some of the best loved brands in the world – and doing this alongside an experienced team.

Job Purpose

We are looking for an AI Consultant who not only knows exactly how to create impact with algorithms, big data, machine learning, and generative AI, but can also translate our tech offerings to our current and future clients as well as our wider digital marketing teams internally

As an AI Consultant, you will work with our excellent portfolio of clients to accelerate their AI initiatives and adoption. You translate business problems into prioritised AI solutions and roadmaps, and guide clients in implementing them with the support from our team of talented engineers and developers. Your role focuses on understanding business challenges and designing strategies based on a deep understanding of AI, rather than writing code.

We are looking for AI Consultants who have had experience in a similar role, preferably at an agency.

What You’ll Do

Discover AI opportunities for our clients through workshops and assessments with a focus on the UK&I market.
Define AI maturity, roadmaps, and use cases for our clients. 
Guide on prioritisation based on business impact and technical effort. 
Design (together with technical experts) and advise on data science and generative AI solutions for various business problems. 
Bring innovative ideas and emerging technologies to the table, fueling innovation within our teams.
Communicate solutions and strategies effectively to clients and team members.


What You’ll Bring

Relevant, hands-on working experience in a data science role, preferably related to digital platform and marketing data and/or working at a digital agency.
Client facing or consultative experience, ideally with UK&I businesses
Someone who is comfortable with presenting and working with a variety of stakeholders, from C-level, to IT product owners and marketing performance managers.
Experience in Python and SQL.
Experience with cloud platforms such as Amazon Web Services, Azure, or Google Cloud Platform.
Deep understanding of Generative AI, NLP, and MLOps concepts.
Analytical, flexible, independent, and a strong communicator.


WE OFFER

A reputation for doing good. DEPT® has been a Certified B Corp® since 2021, has been named a Great Place To Work since 2022 in the Netherlands and named ‘Agency of the Year’ at both The Lovies and The Webby Awards.
Awesome clients. Whether big, small, local or global — at DEPT® you’ll get the opportunity to work with all of them. And we celebrate all of our successes together!
A flexible, hybrid working policy (2-3 days from the office, depending on location) and the opportunity to work from abroad for 13 weeks a year. 
DEPT®/YOU Learning Menu and DEPT®/YOU Special Programs. Develop your skills with courses and programs tailored to your needs.
Stay happy and healthy with a contribution to your health through the OpenUp platform, gym and wellness discounts, and healthy lunches at the office.
Get a discount on your lease bike and ride in style. You can also enjoy hassle free-commutes with an NS Business Card. 
You can discover even more employee benefits here.


WHY DEPT®?

We are a Growth Invention company built to help the world’s most ambitious brands grow faster. Operating at the intersection of technology and marketing, we create what is next by pioneering ideas, acting fast, and moving further because standing still just is not in our DNA.

We are drawn to people who stay curious, move with intent, and never stop inventing. Our culture runs on three values: better together, relentlessly curious, and get sh*t done. It is how we work, how we grow, and how we make things that matter.

At DEPT®, you will find the freedom to explore, the space to collaborate, and the trust to make a real impact for our clients, for each other, and for the world we are helping to build..

DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION 

At DEPT®, we take pride in creating an inclusive workplace where everyone has an equal opportunity to thrive. We actively seek to recruit, develop, nurture, and retain talented individuals from diverse backgrounds, with varying skills and perspectives.

Not sure you meet all qualifications? Apply, and let us decide! Research shows that women and members of underrepresented groups tend not to apply for jobs when they think they may not meet every requirement, when in fact they do. We believe in giving everyone a fair chance to shine.

We also encourage you to reach out to us and discuss any reasonable adjustments we can make to support you throughout the recruitment process and your time with us.

Want to know more about our dedication to diversity, equity, and inclusion? Check out our efforts here.
